1.5.1            Sporting Ethics Code

Our Team Certifies:

We Don’t Cheat.
Our team will never intentionally violate the spirit of a rule. We won’t circumvent the systems FIRST uses to keep the competitions running. We would be ashamed to win a student competition by cheating. The only true wins come when everyone is playing by the same rules: with honor, fair play, and integrity.

We Always Behave with Integrity.
We take pride in behaving with honor, even when “no one is watching.” We appreciate the spirit of FIRST Volunteering, and we want the volunteers to focus on supporting teams rather than simply enforcing rules. We understand that teams need to abide by all the regulations, even the ones that are not checked. Our actions are based on what is right, not what we think we can get away with.

We Play the Game as Intended.
We understand The Sport is designed to be: “Red Alliance vs. Blue Alliance,” it is not supposed to be “Teams vs. Volunteers.” We understand the rules aren’t designed to list every possible situation that can occur. Our team will not try to gain an advantage using any “loopholes” in the rules. If there is ever ambiguity in the specific wording of a rule, we will look to the intent of the rule and spirit of the competition to guide our behavior.

We Know Our Team Doesn’t Enforce the Rules.
Our team values fair play and good sportsmanship. If we see something which we know is inappropriate, we will politely bring it to the attention of competition staff. We understand it is the responsibility of the event staff and FIRST Headquarters to handle any escalation and mitigation. We understand it is not appropriate for us to accuse, investigate, publicly call-out, or persecute anyone for a perceived infraction, especially in a disrespectful or confrontational manner.

1.5.2            Behavior Guidelines

Our Team Certifies:

We Focus on Journey, Before Destination.
Our team will try hard to win. We will chase excellence in everything we do. We will not define our success based on the competition results, but on the lessons we learn and friends we make. FIRST competitions are opportunities to measure our progress, and alongside other teams, celebrate the journey we’ve all taken together!

We Behave with Respect and Good Sportsmanship.
We will always strive to treat others with respect. Regardless of the outcomes, we will always strive to act professionally and behave in a way that we will be proud to remember (even when the competition gets intense and emotions are running high). Long after the competition is over, we know we won’t remember if things didn’t go exactly the way we wanted, but we will remember how we acted during those tough moments.

We support our teammates. We praise our partners. We celebrate our opponents.

We Help Each Other.
We do our best work when we’re helping others and treating them with respect and kindness.
We want to succeed, but we don’t want it to happen because someone else failed. We want to help everyone to play at their best, even when we’re playing against each other. Then, we're going to celebrate with each other regardless of the outcome. (...but we’re hopefully going to win.)

We ‘Take the High Road.’
We’re all still growing, no one is perfect. Being respectful means being understanding, empathetic, and sometimes being forgiving when someone else’s behavior doesn’t meet our expectations. If someone acts in a way which doesn’t seem right, we will try not to let it affect how we behave. Everyone is on their own journey; everyone is struggling in ways we don’t always see. We will remain focused on our own growth. We will be respectful to everyone, even those who are disrespectful to us.

We Respect Property and Facilities.
Our team will always work to leave things in a better state than we find them. We will behave in a way that prevents foreseeable damage to equipment, facilities or the property of others. We will clean up any messes we make. Accidents happen, and we will report any accidental damage to the appropriate individuals.

We Build a Positive Culture of Safety.
We will never knowingly jeopardize our own safety, or the safety of those around us. Our team will enable the safety of everyone we meet. Instead of a culture of safety enforcement, we emphasize teaching safe decision making and understanding safety best practices. In doing so, we help our members learn how they can be safe even in unfamiliar situations.

We Make Healthy Choices.
The competition is exciting and sometimes there is a risk of it becoming all-consuming of our time and attention. We understand that to succeed in FIRST Tech Challenge, and in life, it’s important to prioritize our mental and physical health. Even when things get “very busy,” we will ensure everyone on our team is: staying hydrated, eating well, staying active, getting enough sleep, and taking regular breaks.

We also understand that in any creative process a measured (and sometimes relaxed) schedule which leaves time for recuperation will often result in a better outcome than “grinding” for long hours. We know our team is most successful when every member is at their best, both at competitions and outside them.

We’re All on the Same Team.
This is a global community of great people with unique backgrounds who all have experiences to share. On the field, teams are supposed to compete fiercely against each other. Off the field, we’re all on the same team. Students, Mentors, Volunteers, Event Organizers… Everyone is here for the same reasons. We’re going to have fun, play robots, share stories, build something awesome, learn from everyone we meet, celebrate cool stuff, and more than anything: we'll be excellent to each other!


1.5.3            Infractions, Mitigations, & Escalation

Violations of the CIC may require escalation and/or mitigation depending on the circumstances of the infraction. These infractions may occur at an event and/or outside of events.

Escalations for violations related to specific competition regulations are outlined in the Escalation Guidelines (coming soon). Some situations may require escalation to competition volunteers such as a Lead Robot Inspector (LRI), Head Referee, or FIRST Technical Advisor (FTA) for mitigation.

More serious violations, especially violations of the Sporting Ethics Code, will be escalated to the Event Director, and/or to FIRST Headquarters. At the discretion of FIRST Headquarters, these violations may result in the team being sanctioned, and/or disqualified from current and/or future events. Following an investigation, at the discretion of FIRST Headquarters, serious violations could result in a team or individuals being suspended or permanently removed from the FIRST Tech Challenge program.

FIRST has an open door policy; concerns from an event may be brought to the attention of FIRST Headquarters by emailing customerservice@firstinspires.org or contacting support.
