R601       *ROBOTS can contain only 1 main battery. ROBOTS must contain 1 and only 1 approved 12V NiMH main battery. This battery is only legal source of electrical energy for the ROBOT control system and actuation during the competition and must be unaltered from the battery manufacturer state except as follows:

A.      the fuse may be replaced with a COTS equivalent in-line 20A ATM mini blade fuse installed per R610, and

B.      installed connectors may be replaced with other popular connectors such as Anderson Powerpole, XT30, or any connector with a comparable power rating.

The only allowed ROBOT main power battery packs are:

Table 12‑4: Legal ROBOT Main Power Battery Packs

Battery Pack
	

Part Number
	

Notes

AndyMark Flat Pack Battery DC 12V
	

am-5290
	

 

goBILDA 12V NiMH Nested Battery
	

3100-0012-0020
	

 

Matrix 12V 3000mAh NiMH
	

14-0014
	

May be labeled as “Modern Robotics”

REV 12V Slim Battery
	

REV-31-1302
	

 

Studica 12V 3000mAh NiMH
	

70025
	

 

TETRIX MAX 12V 3000mAh NiMH
	

W39057
	

Formerly 739023

WATTOS 12V Battery
	

WT-NMH1230
	

 

There are many other similar style batteries available from multiple VENDORS, but only the listed manufactures and part numbers are legal for use at FIRST Tech Challenge Events.

Other batteries may be used for self-contained devices as listed in R602.

R602       *Other batteries are only allowed for self-contained peripheral devices and LEDs only. COTS USB battery packs with a capacity of 100Wh or less (27,000mAh at 3.7V), with 5V/5A max output or 12V/5A max output using USB-PD per port, and batteries integral to a self-contained devices such as camera (e.g., GoPro-style camera) may be used provided they are:

A.      not supplying power to any of the ROBOT actuators, and

B.      not used by any devices receiving control signals from the ROBOT control system (i.e., COTS USB battery packs must remain electrically isolated from the ROBOT power systems.). Exceptions to part B of this rule are:

                                                                           i.      powered USB Hubs, and

                                                                         ii.      ROBOT CONTROLLER smartphones.

Any device receiving signals from a REV Control or Expansion Hub must be powered by the main ROBOT battery.

R603       *Connect the ROBOT battery though the Main Power Switch. Exactly one main power switch must control all power provided by the ROBOT battery pack to all power regulating devices on the ROBOT (except as specified by R602) such that all the following conditions are met:  

A.      must be one of the following approved power switches: 

Table 12‑5: Legal Power Switches

Power Switch
	

Part Number

AndyMark FTC Power Switch w/ Bracket
	

am-4969

goBILDA Floodgate Power Switch
	

3103-0005-0001

REV Switch Cable and Bracket
	

REV-31-1387

Studica On/Off Power Switch Kit
	

70182

TETRIX R/C Switch Kit
	

W39129

WATTOS Power Switch Kit
	

WTS-SW1220

B.      must be mounted or located where it is accessible to the team, away from high-speed moving parts and pinch hazards, and

C.      secondary power switches can be used on the 12V line downstream of the main power switch.

There are no specific location requirements for the main power switch, but it should be located clear of any high-speed moving parts and pinch hazards. Teams are permitted to mount the main power switch behind removable panels.

The main power switch should be mounted on the ROBOT such that it is protected from ROBOT-to-ROBOT contact to avoid inadvertent actuation or damage.

R604       *Fuses must be used as directed and must not be modified. The intent of this rule is that teams utilize fuses as directed by a device manufacturer, and do not attempt to gain a competitive advantage by modifying the fuses, replacing the fuses with ones that have a higher trip point, or replacing them with fuses that are self-resetting.

R605       *The ROBOT frame cannot be used as a current path. All wiring and electrical devices shall be electrically isolated from the ROBOT frame. The ROBOT frame must not be used to carry electrical current. Electrically grounding the control system electronics to the frame of the ROBOT is only permitted such that all of the following conditions are met:

A.      straps/cables used must be from the following approved parts:

Table 12‑6: Legal ROBOT Grounding Straps

Grounding Strap
	

Part Number

AndyMark Resistive Grounding Strap
	

am-4648a

REV Resistive Grounding Strap
	

REV-31-1269

Swyft Grounding Cable
	

SR-Ground-01

B.      the strap/cable must directly connect to a fully COTS COMPONENT with an XT30 connector, and also must connect directly to the frame of the ROBOT (via the resistive terminal), and

C.      no ROBOT COMPONENTS or MECHANISMS are designed to electrically ground the ROBOT frame to the FIELD.

For additional details on installation of the grounding strap, please see the ROBOT Wiring Guide.

R606       *ROBOT CONTROLLER and the ROBOT electrical system must be inspectable. ROBOT electrical COMPONENTS must be mounted with accessibility in mind, as follows:

A.      all power regulating devices (per R505), associated wiring, and all fuses must be able to be made visible for inspection, and

B.      the ROBOT CONTROLLER device must be mounted on the ROBOT such that the diagnostic lights, or device screen if applicable, can be visible for inspection.

“Visible for inspection” does not require that the items be visible when the ROBOT is in STARTING CONFIGURATION or normally during a MATCH, provided the team can make the items viewable during the inspection process if necessary.

Teams are strongly encouraged to make the diagnostic lights visible in all ROBOT configurations used during normal MATCH play. If diagnostic LEDs are not visible during a MATCH, FIELD STAFF may not be able to provide comprehensive support to the team.

R607       *Custom Circuits must not provide regulated power above 5V unless they are only powering LEDs. Any active electrical item that is not an actuator (specified in R501) or power regulation device (specified in R505) is considered a CUSTOM CIRCUIT. CUSTOM CIRCUITS shall not provide regulated output voltages exceeding 5V, except if solely used for powering LEDs. CUSTOM CIRCUITS may pass through unregulated battery voltage.

R608       *All Power regulating devices must be connected and powered through approved ports. All power regulating devices (R505) must be powered per the manufacturer’s instructions and the following table must be true:

Table 12‑7: Power Regulation Device Power Requirements

Power Regulating Device
	

Part Number
	

Method of Powering

goBILDA 6V Servo Power Injector
	

3125-0001-0001
	

Only powered using the XT30 connectors on the device by the ROBOT main battery

REV Control Hub /

REV Expansion Hub
	

REV-31-1153 /

REV-31-1595
	

Only powered using the XT30 connectors on the device by the ROBOT main battery

REV Servo Power Module
	

REV-11-1144
	

Only powered using the screw terminals and must only be powered by the ROBOT main battery

REV Robotics Servo Hub
	

REV-11-1855
	

Only powered using the power terminals and must only be powered by the ROBOT main battery

REV SPARKmini
	

REV-31-1230
	

Only powered by the Power input and must only be powered by the ROBOT main battery

Studica Servo Power Block
	

75005
	

Only powered by JST-VH power connector, and must only be powered by the ROBOT main battery

R609       *Use appropriately sized wire. All circuits shall be wired with appropriately sized insulated wire:

Table 12‑8: Wire sizing requirements

Application
	

Minimum Wire Size

12V Main Battery Power
	

18 AWG

(19 SWG or 1 mm2)

Motor Power (unless otherwise listed)

11-20A fuse protected circuit

Motor Power - TETRIX MAX 12V DC Motors, REV Robotics Core Hex (REV-14-1300)
	

22 AWG

(22 SWG or 0.5 mm2)

PWM / Servo

LEDs (5V / 12V)

≤10A fuse protected circuit

Signal level circuits (i.e., circuits which draw ≤1A continuous and have a source incapable of delivering >1A, including but not limited to: I2C, DIO, Analog, encoder and RS485 connections)
	

28 AWG

(29 SWG or .08 mm2)

Integrated wires originally attached to legal COTS devices or wires included/sold by the manufacturer are considered part of the device and by default legal. Such wires are exempt from this rule.

In order to show compliance with these rules, teams should use wire with clearly labeled sizes if possible. If unlabeled wiring is used, teams should be prepared to demonstrate that the wire used meets the requirements of this rule (e.g., wire samples and evidence that they are the required size).

Combining multiple smaller wires in parallel cannot be used to create an equivalent larger wire which meets minimum wire cross section requirements.

R610       *Use specified wire colors for specific buses. The 12V main power bus and +5V auxiliary bus wires must be color-coded along their entire length. The following colors must be used:

A.      positive (e.g., +12VDC / +5V Aux): red, yellow, white, brown, or black-with-stripe, and

B.      negative (e.g., common/GND): black or blue.

Note: this rule does not apply to other types of wires including, but not limited to: motor wiring, signal level wiring (e.g., encoder and sensor wires), servo cables, and extensions, or wires originally attached to legal devices by their manufacturer.

R611       *Powered USB hubs must draw energy from approved sources. Powered USB hubs used on the ROBOT can only be powered through one of the following ways:

A.      an approved COTS USB battery Pack per R602, or

B.      the 5V auxiliary power port on the REV Expansion Hub or REV Control Hub.

R612       *Do not modify critical power paths. CUSTOM CIRCUITS must not directly alter the power or control pathways between:

A.      the ROBOT battery and main power switch,

B.      the main power switch and a power regulating device (per R603),

C.      any two power regulating devices (per R607), or

D.      power regulating devices and actuators.

Custom high impedance voltage monitoring or low impedance current monitoring circuitry connected to the ROBOT’S electrical system is acceptable if the effect on power pathways is inconsequential.

Altering a power pathway includes, but is not limited to, altering the voltage of the power pathway using a boost (DC voltage step-up) or buck (DC voltage step-down) converter or otherwise altering the natural variable DC voltage provided by the ROBOT battery to create a constant DC voltage.

Devices that modify actuator control signals or power (except those allowed by R505) are prohibited, such as the goBILDA Servo Travel Tuner.

R613       *Do not mix and match power on or between power regulation devices. The following rules must be adhered to when using power on any power regulation device (per R505):

A.      sensors, encoders, and other devices must be powered solely by the power regulation device they are connected to. Do not use outside power sources (e.g., custom circuits or a second hub) to power them,

B.      power from a specific port may only power devices plugged into that exact port. Do not cross-wire power to other ports, and do not combine power from multiple ports into a single power bus/line,

C.      6V power from approved Servo Power modules/injectors may only be used to power servos, and

D.      the +5V Aux port on a REV hub may be used to power devices not connected to other power regulation devices except via USB.
